Please click on Step 7 input to analysis where we're going to talk about answering questions about the
competition.
And so you'll see here that's the first row here 7:1 is just informational for you.
OK.
And what I've done is I've pulled over why you answered and answered from Step three in the executive
summary where you talked about if a couple who your top three to five competitors are.
And I also pulled forward what you wrote your competitive advantage was back in step three when we created
your executive summary.
And so again the executive summary is just a summary of the important stuff and then we drill down into
more detail on the important stuff in the other categories here so for competition you'll see it's pulled
here for you if you've entered in the competitive data back in step three and the same thing that competitive
advantage.
And I made the fourth and fifth largest competitors optionals well because a lot of times you just want
to talk about the three biggest competitors in the market.
Everyone is different.
OK.
What you can do if you want is just to get a little bit more space you can minimize your task bar at
the top.
And even this it's it takes a second or two to two.
But what you can do if you don't I shall do that right now on second so I'll minimize That's
all right that's like a segment of Steinhart get.
All right.
So next here in 7:2 And these are just suggestions on a question.
But but I really want to help you to really think about the competitive environment in and how to answer
questions about your competition and so I wrote down here about things like Have you actually tried
the products or services from your competitors.
And if you if you have really think about that thoughtfully as you answer the next couple of questions
and before you invest in any company as well you ought to try the product it'll it'll help you understand
what you're investing in much more detail obviously and think about what makes your your company's product
or service weaker than his competitors.
OK.
Just think about it in those perspectives in that perspective because it will really help you address
those issues here and go to your competitors Web sites if you can find out who they're hiring because
this basically signals what their future competitive strategy is going to be and as I mentioned before
go to the Twitter profiles of your competition see who they're following because it can tell you who
their customers are and their biggest partners as well people are they don't people leave their guards
down on Twitter like a lot of people will will follow politicians.
It's basically that bill will make 50 percent of the people maybe think less favorably of you.
I don't know what 50 percent is but whatever little bit off track there sorry.
Next up set up Google alerts on the competition we talked about Google alerts before.
But do it on the competition as well.
Because I just want you to be aware of when they issue press releases and when there's articles written
about them I want you to stay on top and ahead of the competition at all times.
I'm pretty competitive for you.
OK.
And then I want to read the new reports if you can of your competition because by law they have to disclose
what their weaknesses are and the risks in their business model.
And let me actually do is let me go to every country is different but if you're on a list on the stock
market in any country you usually have to disclose the annual report on a government website.
In Canada it's called Ceder in the United States is called SCC.
And I'll show you a quick example here and you can always go to the Web site of the company you are
looking at to get the report.
If you're on the stock market.
But what we'll do is we're going to ask dot gov.
And we'll just do a quick search on a ticker.
I know Apple.
Actually the ticker AAPL doesn't appear there is a deal.
And then when you see the 10-K that means annual reports so we can actually go here and just type in
10 oh I'm sorry right here 10-K and we can see all the documents historically if we want to go back
to 1994 and find out what the risk we're with Apple back then let's call their action might be kind
of fun.
This is when I remember they were on the cover of Wired magazine.
It said the word prey because people thought they going to go bankrupt is really sad.
And then they had the cover evil genius and Apple years later.
Right here he guess you can go through here and just do a search on the word risk.
And Steve Jobs actually wasn't at the company at this point.
He was fired by the board and then came back and turn it around.
Right.
So it was 31 instances that were at risk in 1994 for Apple.
You can just go down here and read about all the risks.
Right.
So in a lot of times it's this interesting foreign currency issue we talked about hedging earlier in
the course for commodities you can do the same for eFax currencies if you want to.
Well you can just go down through here and read all this stuff and it talks about concentrations of
credit risk and how they distribute their products.
And you can learn a lot about your competition how they distribute their products as well.
By reading through the annual report I know it doesn't look all pretty and here is just kind of like
old antiquated tax but it's helpful it's helpful and they were on the brink of bankruptcy at one point.
It's amazing.
Look at this.
You can find out about a lot of different financial data as well.
We'll talk about a lot of this financial data stuff when we talk about Step 12.
OK.
Let me go back here.
Anyway it's kind of interesting little walk down memory lane for you there.
OK.
And then what else do I have here.
You can go to a glass door and Yelp and other Web sites like the Better Business Bureau to read reviews
on on your competition and what your competition has to say about management as well.
And you may not find anything there if they're if they're smaller companies but for larger companies
go there to get the fun go to class store.
So this course is more than just a business plan course it's kind of a corporate strategy.
I'm having fun.
You can always skip this if you want.
OK.
Let's go to companies and let's search for sales force which is the largest employer now in in San Francisco
worlds are one place to work to use it.
OK.
So you can go through here and learn a lot about the company what people have to say about this company
as well.
You can see what employees have to say about the management as well.
Oh here it is here.
So 97 percent of employees at sales force approve of the founder and CEO Marc Benioff this percent here
recommend to a friend you can read about the cons as well and the pros and look at that it is 4000 for
540 reviews anyway.
You can go there if you want and check out the competition and see what people are saying what I mean
can you see with Yelp.
Same with Better Business Bureau and other Web sites too I'm sure.
OK so next up we've got the description of the largest competitor.
I want to write a one paragraph note here on a profile on them.
OK.
Little things like you know maybe the year they were founded the size of the company their location
their market share and just other details that could really help the reader of your business plan you
know of understand how your company compares to competition.
Don't talk about strengths or weaknesses of the competition here unless it's kind of a brief comparison.
Can cause and Tiguan strengths weaknesses down here below.
And if you have data sources always provide a little footnote if you want to whatever.
It just helps to show in your final business plan documents how thoughtful you were by doing research.
So here you can write down the strength of your largest competitor and the weaknesses.
I just put dummy data here but you can write all here if you want.
Then you write a description of the second largest competitor similar to what I wrote here strengthen
weaknesses of the second largest competitor for them here.
And then it's all tagged here in my sample ones are actually not cured by the ERs are all Takht here
and then description of your third largest competitor the small feet and other places in the documents
and you'll see not just in part seven output but in the final document but as well it's pretty powerful.
You like it I hope.
Okay.
And then down here if you are to a fourth competitor and a fifth I made three competitors mandatory
your call whatever you can always override my mandatory suggestions by just going here marking the whole
steps having is done fifth fourth and fifth.
And then here I wrote down write down your strengths compared to the competition strengths based on
what you wrote above and then your weaknesses based on the competition's weaknesses.
And this is all tagged so later on you can always scroll through and go to all of your answers for everything.
And then here how is the management of your company versus the competition's management.
And then you can talk about the price of your product or service compared to the competition.
I can talk about why your price is higher or lower than the competition.
And then once you're done with this thing open this up which will slow and performance a bit.
That's fine.
But when you're done with this just as as always please click on that button at the top.
If you answer all the questions this should say 100 percent if you skipped a couple of the ones that
are that are required I mean an optional ones it won't say 100 but I recommend just clicking this when
you're done and it will manually override and it says 100 percent done.
And now we are wow we're halfway there.
It's a lot.
So we're 50 percent there.
We're done all of sections we're done with this.
This entire column here which is awesome and I will see in the next lecture which is step seven competition
what's next.